Do you know one of the reasons why we have the hope of everlasting life in a paradise earth?
A young boy who trusted in God was a key to our hope
His name was David. He was a shepherd in ancient Bible times
He had to be brave and courageous in order to protect his sheep
Once David had to fight with the wild bear even though he was only a lad
He always trusted in God about 1,000 years before Christ
During the reign of King Saul
Village life was very simple
However, Saul was disobedient to God and lacked faith
Jehovah God could no longer trust him
Therefore, he sent his prophet Samuel to choose a better king
This was a dangerous assignment
Why was that? If Saul found out, he would kill Samuel
Jehovah told Samuel to take along a cow
so that it would look as if he were visiting just to offer a sacrifice
This would conceal from Saul the real reason for his visit
Samuel finally arrived at Jesse's house in Bethlehem
Now Jesse had 8 sons
When Samuel saw the eldest son Eliab who was tall and impressive, he thought, surely this is the one I should choose
But Jehovah warned Samuel, do not be fooled by appearances
I see the real man on the inside
Samuel went looking at 6 more of Jesse's sons
But Jehovah did not choose a binadab
Nor Shama, nor any of the others
Well, ask Samuel, are these all the boys?
Jesse said that there was only the youngest son, David, who was out caring for the sheep
Bring him in, Samuel said
Would Jehovah really choose him?
His brothers did not think so
When David walked in, Samuel saw a handsome youth who had beautiful eyes
But was still a mere boy
To everyone's surprise, Jehovah said to Samuel, this is the one who will put his trust in me
Annoyed him to be the next king from then on, Jehovah's spirit was with David
Meanwhile, in the King's palace, the servants were trying to please irritable King Saul
Wicked King Saul realized that God had rejected him
This made him have terrifying moods
His servants walked in fear and dread of him
What could be done to make Saul feel better?
He needed something to calm his nerves
A court official recommended soothing music played on a harp
A skilled harpist was called
Who did it turn out to be?
None other than David
Saul came to love David because his music made him feel better
Eventually, Saul went to war against the Philistines
Long time enemies of Israel who hated Jehovah God
The Israelite army camped in the valley of Ilah
They lined up for battle on a mountain on one side
While the Philistines defiantly waited on the other side
The Philistines sent their champion warrior to challenge or taunt Israel
He was a fearsome giant
Over nine feet tall
His name was Goliath
For 40 days morning and evening Goliath shouted out
I taunt the battle lines of Israel
Give me a man and let us fight
Saul and his troops were scared
Nobody wanted to face Goliath
David had brought food to his brothers at the battlefront
He was shocked that no one would face this evil giant
Who was insulting God
But what could young David do?
He boldly offered to fight Goliath
Saul heard about young David's offer
And called him in
Putting his trusting God
David said
Don't be afraid
I will fight this Philistine
Saul exclaimed
You're too young to face this veteran warrior
David said
God has protected me in the past
He will save me now from this Philistine
Goliath must die
For he has taunted the living God Jehovah
So what did David use as weapons?
His shepherd's staff
Five smooth stones
And his trusty sling
That is all
The giant could hardly believe his eyes
Who was this boy coming out to face him
Am I a dog?
Did you come to me with this staff?
Just come over here
And I'll feed you to the birds and the beasts
David answered
You are coming to me with a sword, a spear, and a javelin
I am coming to you with a name of Jehovah
The Philistines panicked and fled
The God of Israel had triumphed
At the hand of a mere shepherd boy
Jonathan Saul's son had heard about the battle
He was impressed by David's victory over Goliath
Instead of being jealous, he admired him
They became the very best of friends
Jonathan promised to support David to the end
Sometime after David defeated Goliath
Saul put David in charge of the men of war
As time went on
David proved that he was a better soldier than Saul
Women flocked to see Saul and David when they came back from battle
They greeted them with song and dance
Crying out
Saul has struck down his thousands
And David, his tens of thousands
Saul was furious at such a comparison
He got jealous and angry
And began to turn against David
He did not trust him
So Saul began to scheme to have David killed
Saul had a beautiful daughter called Michael
Although Saul did not know it
She was in love with David
Saul servants realized that she wanted to marry him
When Saul found out about Michael's affection for David
He had last saw his chance to do away with him
Through his servants
Saul made David an offer
He would let David marry Michael
If he would kill 100 Philistines
Saul hoped that the Philistines would kill David instead
David took up the challenge
And with his few men he went out
And killed not 100 but 200 of the Philistines
Saul's trick failed
And he was forced to give Michael to David
It was clear that Jehovah was supporting David
This made Saul very afraid
From now on he would be David's worst enemy
However, Saul still needed David's soothing music
But not for long
Saul's hatred became very clear
David fled to his home
Michael warned him
If you don't run away tonight
Tomorrow you'll be dead
David and his small band of men
Headed for the wilderness to hide
Saul and his army went after David
David was forced to flee deeper and deeper into the wilderness
What unknown dangers lay ahead
Saul looked everywhere
But he couldn't find David
But he was determined to destroy him
Jonathan risking everything
Went searching for David
He hoped to encourage him
Finding him was no easy task
Jonathan assured David
Don't be afraid
My father won't find you
You will be king over Israel
And I will be second to you
They promised to be loyal to each other
However
This was the last time that they would be together
In time
Saul found out where David was hiding
With 3,000 of his best men
He closed in on David
However
David spies told him where Saul was camped
So David
Crept up on him at night
With his bold nephew Abishai
All the guards had fallen asleep
David found Saul sleeping soundly in the middle of the camp
Abishai eager to kill Saul
Whisper to David
Let me please pin him to the earth with the spear
Once will be enough
David said
No
I would never think of harming Jehovah's anointed king
Instead
Let's take his spear and water jug
And then get out of here
From the nearby mountain top
David called out to the chief of Saul's bodyguard
Why didn't you watch over your lord the king
Someone could have killed him
Look
I have the king's spear and water jug
Then he said to Saul
I could have killed you but I didn't
I trust Jehovah to respect my life
And protect me from all my enemies
Saul replied
You will be blessed David
Without a doubt
You will be the winner
With that
David left
And Saul returned home
The Israelites continued their war with the Philistines
But this time things did not go well
At Mount Gilbauer
The Philistines closed in on Saul
They killed three of his sons
Among these was Jonathan
David's most trusted friend
Then the archers found Saul
He fell severely wounded
Rather than be executed by his enemies
He fell upon his own sword
And killed himself
David who had been loyal to Jehovah's king
Was so heartbroken
That he ripped apart his clothing
He and his men
Begin to reap
Whale and fast
He also composed a funeral song
I am deeply distressed
Saul and Jonathan have died together
My brother Jonathan
You
You were my closest and most trusted friend
Years later God's promise came true
When David
Who had trusted in Jehovah
Was crowned as king over all Israel
David later built his palace in Jerusalem
Which came to be called the city of David
He loved Jehovah's worship so much
That he had the ark of the covenant brought to Jerusalem
The ark
Was a sacred chest
Covered in gold
And used in worship of Jehovah
It had been kept outside the city
Eventually
After checking Jehovah's instructions carefully
The Levite priests carried the covered ark on their shoulders with rods
With music and rejoicing
They brought the ark to a tent in Jerusalem
It was a great and happy day for David and for Israel
Skipping about
David was filled with joy
Jehovah's worship was being given first place
David was happy and secure in his royal palace
But he realized that the ark of the true God was in a simple tent
David wanted to build a beautiful temple for Jehovah
Would Jehovah allow that?
Nathan the prophet was sent by Jehovah to tell David his decision
However, to David's surprise
Nathan told him that as a man of war
He would not build the temple
That privilege would go to a future son
David was clearly disappointed
Jehovah made a new promise to David
Namely that the kingship would not be removed from his family
Eventually one of his descendants would rule forever over all the earth
That one would be the best king the world had ever known
However
Sometime later David entered into perhaps the saddest part of his life
He was a good king
But he also made serious mistakes
He watched Bathsheba another man's wife bathing
He desired her
Send for her and took her to his bed
Then he had Bathsheba's husband killed in battle
Jehovah sent Nathan to David to tell him how badly he had sinned
Because of the kingdom promise he would not lose his life
But Jehovah would punish him severely
David showed that he was very sorry for what he had done
With tears he wrote in Psalm 51
Show me favor of God
According to your loving kindness
Against you I have sinned and what is bad in your eyes I have done
Jehovah forgave David for his serious sins
Overall David proved to be a good and faithful king
His rule brought peace and prosperity to the land of Israel
Toward the end of his life
David reminded his son Solomon
Who was to be the next king
Of the valuable lessons he had learned in life
Trust in Jehovah even when the challenges seem too great to overcome
Be strong and trust in Jehovah
Even if you have to wait for God's promises to be fulfilled
Walk in God's ways and admit your mistakes
Never stop serving the true God and trusting in him
Remember that the everlasting kingdom that Jehovah has promised
Will come through our family line
God's kingdom promised to David started to come true
When Solomon became the next king of Israel
This promise eventually led to the anointing of Jesus Christ as king
Jesus now ruling from the heavens is the rightful ruler over all the earth
He will reign over a global paradise
The Christ's rule
David and Jonathan will be resurrected
They will meet again you want to be blessed like David
Keep on serving Jehovah faithful
Then you will receive everlasting life with David and Jonathan in God's new world
Two will be rewarded for your trust in God